README.md, before:

# SDCC PT3 player Library for MSX

#### Version: 
1.1

#### Date: 
27/05/2019

#### Architecture: 
MSX

#### Programming language: 
C & Assembler

#### Authors: 

- Vortex Tracker II v1.0 PT3 player for ZX Spectrum by S.V.Bulba <vorobey@mail.khstu.ru> http://bulba.at.kz
- Adapted to MSX by Alfonso D. C. aka Dioniso <dioniso072@yahoo.es>
- Arrangements for MSX ROM: MSXKun/Paxanga soft > http://paxangasoft.retroinvaders.com/
- asMSX version: SapphiRe > http://www.z80st.es/
- Adapted to SDCC: mvac7/303bcn > <mvac7303b@gmail.com>

#### In Test/Example software:

- PT3 song:  
  "A funny day with my MSX" from 50RU MSX invitro (AAMSX)
  by Makinavaja 


#### asMSX PT3 player (by SapphiRe):        
http://www.z80st.es/blog/2008/11/19a-nueva-version-del-replayer-de-pt3        


## Sorry!: This text is pending correction of the English translation. <<<<<<<<


### History of versions:
- 1.1 (27/05/2019) <<current version>> Adaptation to SDCC of asMSX version by SapphiRe.
- 1.0 (21/10/2016) Adaptation to SDCC of the ROM version by Kun.


## 1. Introduction

Adaptation of the PT3 Player to be used in software development in C (SDCC). 

Allows access to player variables.

To allow to assign a Note Table externally, we have it in RAM.  

Include an example application for testing and learning purposes.




## 2. License

Vortex Tracker II v1.0 PT3 player (c) 2004 S.V.Bulba



## 3. Acknowledgments
  
Thanks for information, help or your contribution to the MSX community:

* S.V.Bulba > <vorobey@mail.khstu.ru> http://bulba.at.kz
* Dioniso > <dioniso072@yahoo.es>
* MSXKun/Paxanga soft > http://paxangasoft.retroinvaders.com/
* SapphiRe/Z80ST > http://www.z80st.es/
* Avelino Herrera > http://msx.atlantes.org/index_es.html
* Nerlaska > http://albertodehoyonebot.blogspot.com.es
* Fubu > http://www.gamerachan.org/fubu/
* Marq/Lieves!Tuore > http://www.kameli.net/lt/
* Pentacour > http://pentacour.com/
* JamQue/TPM > http://www.thepetsmode.com/
* Andrear > http://andrear.altervista.org/home/msxsoftware.php
* Konamiman > https://www.konamiman.com
* MSX Assembly Page > http://map.grauw.nl/resources/msxbios.php
* Portar MSX Tech Doc > http://nocash.emubase.de/portar.htm
* MSX Resource Center > http://www.msx.org/
* Karoshi MSX Community > http://karoshi.auic.es/
* BlueMSX >> http://www.bluemsx.com/
* OpenMSX >> http://openmsx.sourceforge.net/
* Meisei  >> ?



## 4. Requirements

For C:

 * Small Device C Compiler (SDCC) v3.6 > http://sdcc.sourceforge.net/
     
 * Hex2bin v2.2 > http://hex2bin.sourceforge.net/

 * Vortex Tracker II > https://bulba.untergrund.net/vortex_e.htm
   (for create PT3 songs)



## 5. Functions

* void PT3Init(unsigned int, char) Init Song: (unsigned int) Song data address ;(char) Loop - 0=off ; 1=on
* void PT3Decode() Decode a frame from PT3 Song.
* void PT3PlayAY() Play Song. Execute on each interruption of VBLANK.
* void PT3Stop() Stop Song.


## 6. How to use

Follow the next steps:

1) Assign the table of notes that corresponds to the one used in the song. 
2) Initialize the song to sound with PT3Init.
3) At each VBLANK interrupt, execute PT3PlayAY(). This function dumps the AY 
record values and makes it sound.
4) Execute PT3Decode() in your code in each frame, to process the song data.
5) Hit PT3Stop(), when you need to stop the song.

Commit message:

Mute, bug en Note Table y textos

README.md, after:

# SDCC PT3 Player Library for MSX

#### Version: 
1.1

#### Date: 
28/05/2019

#### Architecture: 
MSX

#### Programming language: 
C

#### Authors: 

- Vortex Tracker II v1.0 PT3 player for ZX Spectrum by S.V.Bulba <vorobey@mail.khstu.ru> http://bulba.at.kz
- Adapted to MSX by Alfonso D. C. aka Dioniso <dioniso072@yahoo.es>
- Arrangements for MSX ROM: MSXKun/Paxanga soft > http://paxangasoft.retroinvaders.com/
- asMSX version: SapphiRe > http://www.z80st.es/
- Adapted to SDCC: mvac7/303bcn > <mvac7303b@gmail.com>

#### In Test/Example software:

- PT3 song:  
  "A funny day with my MSX" from 50RU MSX invitro (AAMSX)
  by Makinavaja 


#### asMSX PT3 player (by SapphiRe):        
http://www.z80st.es/blog/2008/11/19a-nueva-version-del-replayer-de-pt3        


## Sorry!: This text is pending correction of the English translation. <<<<<<<<


### History of versions:
- 1.1 (28/05/2019) <current version> Adaptation to SDCC of asMSX version by SapphiRe.
- 1.0 (21/10/2016) Adaptation to SDCC of the ROM version by Kun.


## 1. Introduction

Adaptation of the Vortex Tracker II PT3 Player for MSX to be used in software 
development in C (SDCC). 

Allows access to player variables.

As there are four tables of notes available in Vortex Tracker, this must be 
assigned externally, copying to the space reserved in the variable NoteTable.
The four tables are included in files <PT3player_NoteTableN.h>  

Include an example application for testing and learning purposes.




## 2. License

Vortex Tracker II v1.0 PT3 player (c) 2004 S.V.Bulba



## 3. Acknowledgments
  
Thanks for information, help or your contribution to the MSX community:

* S.V.Bulba > <vorobey@mail.khstu.ru> http://bulba.at.kz
* Dioniso > <dioniso072@yahoo.es>
* MSXKun/Paxanga soft > http://paxangasoft.retroinvaders.com/
* SapphiRe/Z80ST > http://www.z80st.es/
* Avelino Herrera > http://msx.atlantes.org/index_es.html
* Nerlaska > http://albertodehoyonebot.blogspot.com.es
* Fubu > http://www.gamerachan.org/fubu/
* Marq/Lieves!Tuore > http://www.kameli.net/lt/
* Pentacour > http://pentacour.com/
* JamQue/TPM > http://www.thepetsmode.com/
* Andrear > http://andrear.altervista.org/home/msxsoftware.php
* Konamiman > https://www.konamiman.com
* MSX Assembly Page > http://map.grauw.nl/resources/msxbios.php
* Portar MSX Tech Doc > http://nocash.emubase.de/portar.htm
* MSX Resource Center > http://www.msx.org/
* Karoshi MSX Community > http://karoshi.auic.es/
* BlueMSX >> http://www.bluemsx.com/
* OpenMSX >> http://openmsx.sourceforge.net/
* Meisei  >> ?



## 4. Requirements

For C:

* Small Device C Compiler (SDCC) v3.6 > http://sdcc.sourceforge.net/
     
* Hex2bin v2.2 > http://hex2bin.sourceforge.net/

* Vortex Tracker II > https://bulba.untergrund.net/vortex_e.htm
   (for create PT3 songs)



## 5. Functions

* void **PT3Init**(unsigned int, char) Init Song: (unsigned int) Song data address ;(char) Loop - 0=off ; 1=on
* void **PT3Decode**() Decode a frame from PT3 Song.
* void **PT3PlayAY**() Play Song. Execute on each interruption of VBLANK.
* void **PT3Mute**() Silence the PSG.


## 6. How to use

Follow the next steps:

1) Assign the table of notes that corresponds to the one used in the song. 
2) Initialize the song to sound with **PT3Init**.
3) At each VBLANK interrupt, execute **PT3PlayAY**. This function dumps the AY 
record values and makes it sound.
4) Execute **PT3Decode** in your code in each frame, to process the song data.
5) As you want to stop the playback of the song, execute **PT3Mute** and stop 
calling **PT3Decode**.
6) To play another song, repeat these steps starting with number 2.
